
Imagine that you are living in the year 2222, and the plants in the picture are still growing. The yellow flower is from the prickly pear cactus, also known as nopal. Somehow it grew through four seasons of extreme temperatures and kept growing year after year. It thrived in the heat of summer and survived the freezing cold and heavy snow of winter. It wrapped itself around a tree in front of an Italian restaurant, just to the south. The flower  is facing west, looking towards the Empire State building towering in the distance.
What does a symbol of Mexico mean when you find it outside an Italian restaurant in New York? You might guess that some people from Mexico worked in the restaurant or lived in the neighborhood. (You’d  be right.) You could look for clues about a link between Mexico and New York. You’d  probably find many, since people went back and forth between these places for generations, but you might not guess that the owners of the restaurant were from Ecuador. Still, that’s  not surprising. It’s  just part of the international nature of New York.
Actually, seeing these plants in 2222 isn’t realistic. They wouldn’t live that long, but maybe they could reproduce. After all, the prickly pear cactus, also known as nopal, has been around for thousands of years.
According to an ancient legend, the Aztecs believed that they should build a temple and a city in a special place. In the early 1300s, they were looking for an eagle eating a snake, sitting on top of a nopal cactus. The cactus would be growing on a rock coming out of the water. They found that on an island in Lake Texcoco. That’s where they built the capital of their powerful empire. They called it Tenochtitlán.
You can’t see it under the sidewalk, but there is water below New York, too. In some places, it’s only 4 feet below the surface. There might not be eagles, but there are definitely hawks in Queens. Do you think a bird might land on the nopal in this picture? Could it be a symbol of a place to build a new empire? We’d have to ask the person who planted it. To some, it just represents hope. It reminds us to adapt and persevere, no matter what.
