Dimitri had broken a toe while playing soccer. After an exam and some x-rays, his doctor recommended surgery to fix the broken bone. Dimitri didn't exactly like going to a hospital or surgical center, but he didn't want to have trouble walking later in life either. He decided to follow the doctor’s advice.
About a week before the surgery, he had some blood work done and was given a prescription for an antibiotic. He had read a lot about antibiotic resistance. He had even known people who used antibiotics completely wrong, not finishing them and later sharing what was left with friends or family, even with no evidence that antibiotics were needed. He was well-aware of superbugs, infections that were hard to treat because the usual antibiotics didn't work anymore. He knew that antibiotics were only useful for bacterial infections, not viruses. As far as he could tell, he didn't have a bacterial infection, so why would he need antibiotics?
When he told his mother that he wasn't sure if he really wanted to fill the antibiotic prescription the doctor had given him, Dimitri got an earful in response. His mother was a nurse, and her first reaction was strong. “You really don't want a bone infection, do you? Look up osteomyelitis. If you don't prevent it, the next thing you know, you'll have a big, gaping wound and we'll have to start catching flies to treat you with maggots!”
Dimitri laughed; he was used to his mother’s sarcasm. An image of little white worms crawling on his toe came to mind. It was gross, but it was also funny.
“You think I'm kidding about the maggots, don't you?” his mother said. “When I was in nurses’ training in the 1960s, we had a guy with a really bad case of osteomyelitis. They finally put maggots in the wound to eat up all the dead tissue. It may sound disgusting, but it worked. The guy recovered.”
Dimitri listened, considering his options. Although he didn't ask, his mother offered more information. “Bone infections can be really nasty,” she explained, “and they don't always heal up in a month or two. You could be on antibiotics for up to a year. You don't want the bone breaking down, and you certainly don't want your foot amputated! Think about it; the long term consequences are not so pleasant.”
It was clear that his mother had a point. Dimitri didn't mind if she used sarcasm and humor to get her message across. She reassured him that the antibiotic his doctor had ordered probably wouldn't cause any trouble. It was a short-term course of a drug with a long history. It wouldn't lead to antibiotic resistance, and taking it would be much safer than risking a bone infection. He knew she was right.
