Eleanor’s legs hurt as she climbed the stairs out of the subway. She wondered how she was going to have the energy to visit a museum but forced herself to keep going. Her friend was already waiting for her outside the Guggenheim, holding a place near the front of the line. It was almost pay-what-you-wish time, and at least 100 people were waiting to get in. 
The line stretched down Fifth Avenue and around the corner on 88th Street. Eleanor walked on 89th to avoid it. She was looking forward to finding an ice cream truck, but at the last minute, guilt stopped her. George, her friend, was on a diet, and she didn’t want to make him wait any longer. Thanking him for getting there early and apologized for arriving at the last minute herself. The line started moving forward - until the people in front of them stopped to take pictures right inside the entrance. The general mood was festive, so Eleanor and her friend didn’t complain. 
Noticing a bench in the corner, Eleanor asked her friend to sit down and admire the view. People wandered around the open space, looking at the skylight high above and taking pictures. It was Elear they found a way around them

bench in the corner and sat down to rest, admiring the architecture. They talked about how Frank Lloyd Wright, the architect, died at 91 on the other side of the country - 6 months before the building opened. 

People The Italian coffee for sale next to them smelled strong. Eleanor wanted to get some, but she knew they couldn’t take it into the galleries and she didn’t want to ask her friend to wait any more. She decided to use positive psychology, savoring the smell of the coffee and the sounds she liked in the brand name.
As they began walking up the ramp to the galleries, Eleanor remembered a gold toilet that an artist had made. Hoping to find it, she stopped at the first restroom. Her friend wandered off to look at sculpture while she waited behind two other people. Neither said anything to her when they came out of the restroom, but there was something unusual inside. 
Instead of toilet paper, Eleanor found 2 long pieces of pink crochet. At first, she was amused – until she checked her pockets for a tissue and found nothing. Thinking about cultures where people use water instead of toilet paper, she wondered if it was an environmental message.  paper could present a risk of spreading infections. She did a mental check of the positive psychology she was using: curiosity about who made the pink crochet and why. Was it an art installation? What did they do with the toilet paper? She found the myste amusing and was interested in knowing more. 
Eleanor wanted to take a picture of that strange sight, but social intelligence stopped her. She knew other people were waiting to use the restroom, so she left quickly and warned the next person that she would need her own toilet paper. That was 
Using positive psychology and looking at art gave Eleanor new energy. Taking a break in the reading room with her friend 

Eleanor told her friend about the pink crochet and about a gold toilet that had been in the museum for a while. That’s actually what she was hoping to find in the first restroom, forgetting that it was already gone. She didn’t know someone had covered a regular toilet with gold crochet in the museum a few months before. 

When they stopped in the reading room, they overheard some museum staff talking about 
As they moved through the galleries, Later, Eleanor and her friend found 
After looking at 



Knowing about positive psychology lets us think about the world in different ways. This doesn’t mean we should ignore our problems or pretend everything is fine when it isn’t.
A magnifying lens makes things look bigger; a positive psychology lens focuses on what’s good. If we know the character strengths and some positive emotions, we can easily find them. It means that we can find something good if we look
