The name Piaget means different things to different people. It brings memories of teaching and learning to anyone who has studied developmental psychology or theories of learning. On the other hand, a person who loves a certain type of fine jewelry might associate the name Piaget with a shop like the one in the photo.

Jean Piaget was an educator and lifelong learner from Switzerland who inspired many others to think deeply about how people think and learn. When he was young, Piaget studied natural sciences, but he is known for his work in education. Instead of thinking of children as miniature adults, for instance, Piaget suggested that their brains work in a different way. A younger child has a less logical way of thinking than an older one. That ’s why you can take a small child on a 30-minute trip, one that you’ve taken together before, and hear the same question every 5 minutes: Are we there yet? When are we going to get there? How much longer? Etc.

Sometimes we might think a child is being unreasonable or difficult, but the reality is that the brain develops and changes over time. Even as adults, our knowledge grows and our perspective changes. How  does this happen? If logic builds over time, can we keep working on this as we get older? How does language affect the way we think? Today, the Jean Piaget Society continues to explore questions like these.

You can learn about Piaget and developmental psychology for free online or in a library. Likewise, if the name Piaget brings images of fine jewelry to mind, you can also learn about it online. Another Piaget was born in Switzerland about 20 years before Piaget the educator. That Piaget began making watches in a workshop on his family's farm. Over the years, his business expanded and diamonds and fine metals became part of the process. Today, the name Piaget represents a luxurious brand of jewelry. A necklace like the one in the photo probably costs as much as or more than a decent car. If you’re ever on Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan or another place with a Piaget shop, you can take a look.

Everyone has their own ideas of what’s beautiful, what’s interesting, and what’s right. Considering that, would you rather learn more about Jean Piaget's ideas of how people learn or Piaget the jeweler's business of how to sell luxury?
