	In November, 2012, we went to Herald Square in Manhattan to watch the famous Macy’s Thanksgiving parade. We were expecting to see crowds of people and a parade with huge balloons in the shape of cartoon characters and other funny designs. We did see all that, of course, but while I was trying to take pictures through the crowd, I heard some beautiful music playing nearby. I turned around, looking for a saxophone or some other type of horn made of metal. Imagine how surprised I was when I found a man playing a horn he had made out of PVC pipe. He told me that he had put a traditional reed in it, to make the sound, but otherwise it was made from the kind of materials you can find in a hardware store or plumbing supply shop. When I asked if I could use his photo on this site, he agreed and kindly gave me his business card. He didn’t sound like anyone I’ve ever met from West Africa, but according to his business card, his name is Abu, Abu the Flutemaker.
 Later, when I searched for information about him, I learned that he didn’t always go by the name Abu. He didn’t know about his musical talent for a long time, either. In one video, he explains that  at some point in his life, a gentleman had left a flute in his house. He just started playing it. At first he couldn’t get any sound out of it, but he didn’t give up. When he tried one last time, he discovered something he had never known: he has perfect pitch. That discovery changed his life.
 Excited about music, Abu quit his job and began dedicating himself to making and playing instruments. He often used found objects, the kinds of things that other people don’t want, so they leave them in the trash, or give them away, etc. In one video you can see a marimba with wrenches for keys and a guitar made out of an old clock. He began making all kinds of instruments and playing familiar jazz songs and more.
	Abu decided to share his talent with kids in Baltimore, where he lives. He wanted to work in recreation centers to teach kids to make drums and flutes, but he couldn’t get a job. Knowing that sometimes people don’t appreciate what’s right in front of them, he decided to lie. Although he had never been to Africa, he started wearing African clothes and saying he was African. His trick worked; he got hired and went on TV. Eventually, he didn’t want to lie anymore. He explains that he didn’twant younger people to think that they can’t  be creative if they’re not from Somewhere Else.  (Obviously, there is a long history of racism and exoticism in this story, but you can figure that out for yourself.)
 At age 71, when one of the videos was made, Abu said that he doesn’t want to leave this world behind without sharing all his knowledge of how to craft instruments. Maybe that’s  one of the reasons that he went all the way from Baltimore to New York for Thanksgiving, to keep spreading his talent around. I’m thankful that he did.
