
Governors Island is a small island in New York Harbor, very close to Manhattan, Brooklyn and Staten Island. It was inhabited by American Indians of the Lenape tribe first and later by various European groups after the Dutch arrived there in the 1620s. For a while, it was used by the British, who gave it the name we use today. Even though it should be possessive, because the original British idea was that the island was for their royal governors, we don’t use the apostrophe anymore. At some point in history it just got lost; most people probably don’t miss it.


During the American Revolution, New York was occupied by the British. George Washington and his army had tried to capture Governors Island for the colonists, but the British won that particular battle. They occupied some of the forts that were built to protect the coastline, until they eventually surrendered in 1783.


Some of the forts were renovated after the war, including two buildings  that you can visit if you go to the island nowadays. One is called Fort Jay and the other is known as Castle Williams, due to its shape and style. The National Park Service offers tours of the latter. If it’s not too crowded, you can walk around the exhibits on the ground level by yourself. If you would like to take a tour of the roof and the interior of the castle, you have to get a free ticket from the desk at the castle. Castle Williams closes a little earlier than the rest of the island, so you should plan accordingly.


Fort Jay is near the Brooklyn side of Governors Island and you can walk around it by yourself. Like Castle Williams, it gives you a sense of the history of the island and the way wars have changed over the centuries, without losing any of their horror. There are a few cannons at various positions around Fort Jay and some cannonballs, too. They don’t look like they’re the right size for the cannons, but they still help you imagine how awful it would be to fight with them or against then.


No matter what side you’re on, war involves suffering. At Governors Island you can think about that if you focus on the history, but you can also spend your day enjoying all the trees and open space. It’s up to you!

