 Growing up in the northeastern part of the U.S., I never knew much about malaria. To me, mosquitoes were something to avoid, but getting bitten didn’t  mean getting sick. It just meant that I would have an itchy bump on my skin for a few days until it got better.
 As an adult, I learned much more about malaria and the way human behavior can  make it easier or harder to prevent and treat diseases. A friend told me about how she had worked as a doctor on a tuberculosis (TB) treatment program in her native country, Somalia. She explained that many patients who had tested positive for TB didn’t take their medicine for all the time that they needed to. Because many people didn’t  get a good education when they  were younger, they didn’t understand the way the disease and the medicine worked. They thought that if they felt better, they didn’t need to continue taking the medicine. Many also thought that their illness was  caused by something like witchcraft, or a curse from someone who wanted to harm them. Obviously, the truth is much different. 
 A few years after I had  heard about TB and other tropical diseases from my friend, I went to West Africa to visit some friends who were working in Cote d’Ivoire and Liberia. I didn’t want to get sick from malaria, so I took medicine to prevent it. Since I had  all the privileges of an outsider, I was  given a mosquito net to sleep under at night, and I used mosquito repellent. I also wore long sleeves and long pants whenever I could  and tried to avoid the times of day when mosquitoes are most active. I had  the knowledge and the resources  to try to prevent malaria. I also knew that if I did get sick, I could  find treatment. That should not be a privilege in the modern world. When I heard that some of the local people had gotten malaria, I asked about medicine. Most were able to find it, but they didn’t always take it as long as they were  supposed to. I was disappointed and disgusted, thinking that the local schools and culture had  failed  to teach people the link between taking medicine correctly and preventing malaria.
 When I went back to the U.S., I was  surprised to learn that malaria had  been a problem in northern areas in the past. The first time I heard about it in New York was at the Museum of Natural History in Manhattan. There ’s  a model of a huge mosquito in one section, with information about how malaria had once affected the city. By making an effort  to prevent it, New York had succeeded in eradicating the disease. The problem is  complicated and enormous, but why can’t  other areas do likewise? 
 The reality is  that malaria doesn’t  cost much to prevent or treat, but it can  take a country years and years before they manage to get rid of it. Even today, when billions of dollars are spent to fight malaria, it is  blamed for far too many deaths. It is  also considered an economic factor, in many ways. People who are  too sick can’t  work, so they lose money. People who are too poor and can’t get access to free medicine don’t  have an effective way to find treatment. Drug resistance has  become a major problem, too. What kind of solutions can you think of?
