In the United States, the second Monday in October is a federal holiday. That means public schools and other government institutions  are closed. The holiday is officially in honor of Christopher Columbus, a man who was born in Italy in 1451. It's also a chance to practice critical thinking, especially the skill of considering different points of view. What Columbus did between his birth in Italy and his death in Spain about 50 years later is what really matters.
For many Italian Americans and others, Columbus was a hero. Like other European explorers of his era, he left home to learn about other parts of the world and bring back riches and information for his sponsors. Long before the internet and our ability to fly far away for a relatively low economic cost, you couldn't really know much about any place or people far from your own home; you could only imagine and listen to stories from traders who traveled by land. Without accurate maps, people on one continent didn't even know about different people on another.
There was debate and ignorance about the shape of our planet. Did the world end at the horizon? If you sailed a ship all the way out to that line where the water meets the sky, would you fall off the edge of the earth? These were just a few of the uncertainties that made travel so risky over 5 centuries ago. When people claim that Columbus was a brave leader, this might be partly what they have in mind.
That's one way to look at Columbus: an explorer who opened up a whole "new world" to Europe. He wasn't the first European to arrive in the Americas; other explorers had crossed the Atlantic from northern Europe about 500 years earlier. Called Vikings, or Norsemen, they came from the area we now call Scandinavia (countries like Denmark, Norway and Sweden). However, while the Vikings ended up colonizing and changing parts of Europe, Columbus' journey led Spain and other European countries to colonize and utterly transform the Americas.
Ironically, Columbus was actually looking for India, a source of valuable herbs and spices that didn't grow in northern Europe. He was hoping to find a shorter path to gold and other riches for his sponsors in Spain. However, after a difficult journey full of storms, doubts, ill health and other trouble, he and his crew landed in the Caribbean. Still confused, they referred to the people there as "Indians" but they may not have even seen them as fully human. Neither group understood the other; they lacked the appreciation of diversity that helps people of different cultures live together today. Without a way to communicate clearly and ask questions about each other's families, manners, clothing, and more, the Europeans and the native Caribbeans did not get along well at all, to say the least.
Those who still honor Columbus say he discovered the Americas when he was probably expecting more ocean and found a continent instead. Those who see the connection between his voyage and the subsequent disasters of exploitation, territorial invasion and even genocide may have a different perspective. In the words of an elderly man from the Dominican Republic, "Columbus was an assassin and a traitor!" Perhaps we don't have enough evidence to verify stories about Columbus and/or his crew demanding gold and committing atrocities, but we do know that millions and millions of native people died. Violence was one factor; disease was another. Living in close contact with animals, even sleeping near them for warmth, had helped Europeans develop resistance to germs that devastated people born and raised far away.
Did either side, the Europeans or the native Caribbeans, respect what we now call human rights in their own societies? Is it fair to use our modern sense of justice when we look at the past?
In 2015, a difficult year for human rights, the activist Shaun King shared his point of view right before Columbus Day: "Don't you dare celebrate anything related to Christopher Columbus. He discovered nothing and didn't even end up where he intended." What do you think? With more information from different sources, have you ever changed your perspective on history?
