One morning in late summer, my friend and I took a ferry from lower Manhattan to Governors Island. When we arrived at the island, we walked toward Brooklyn because we didn’t want to go in the same direction as most of the other people from the ferry. We didn’t  have anything against them, of course; we just prefer to avoid a crowd when we can.
After taking a few pictures of the Manhattan skyline and the bridges across the East River, we walked over to the Brooklyn side of the island.  Near the ferry that goes to downtown Brooklyn, there’s an open-air museum on a small pier. It has a few interactive exhibits with information about local history and environmental issues related to the river. You can  turn a handle to generate electricity and play audio interviews with interesting people. My friend and I spent a few minutes listening to a young student talk about a project to revive oysters in local waterways, and then we each wandered around looking at different things.
It was  a beautiful sunny morning and the wind was  blowing. I was  wearing a hat to protect my skin and my eyes so that the bright sun wouldn’t  give me a headache from squinting. I was  busy looking at something and I wasn’t  paying attention to my hat when suddenly the wind blew harder. As you can  see from the picture, my hat flew straight to the water.  I had  bought it in Haiti and worn it all over, from Brazil to Chicago. It fit me well, so I really wanted to get it back. My friend had  walked to the end of the pier to look at something else, and although he wanted to help, there was  nothing we could  do. We looked around for a pole or a long stick to try to pull it out, and then I checked to see if anyone was  in a kayak nearby but we didn’t  find a solution. I simply had  to let go of my attachment to my hat, and to my feeling of guilt for dumping something in the river.
The irony was  that my hat blew off when I was  playing with an exhibit about the garbage people used to throw in the river when it was  used as a dump. Someone had  collected trash from the past and put it in a tube that you could  turn and read about. There was  an old carrot, a horses’ hoof from the days when horses were  more common in the city than cars, and other samples of unwanted things from the past.
I wonder who might  find my hat in the future, if anyone, to put in another display of the way 21st century humans didn’t  respect their waterways. Since it was  made of cotton, maybe it will  disintegrate in a few years and no one will  find it. I hope so, anyway.
