Perseverance means persistence, finishing what you start. When you face obstacles like difficulty or failure, it can be hard to persevere, but that&#8216;s the point. If perseverance is one of your strengths, you keep trying until you reach your goal, whatever it may be.
For Jaime, a college student majoring in environmental science, perseverance was essential. He was taking a biology course, and experience had taught him to study hard. The previous semester, in another biology course, he had failed one of the first quizzes. There were so many new terms to learn, and they didn&#8217;t come easily to him. Although some people grow up hearing words like humerus, radius and ulna, Jaime wasn&#8217;t one of them. English wasn&#8217;t his first language, so he was still learning lots of words, not just in his biology course. It would have been easy to blame the professor, who just stood in front of the class lecturing and showing too many slides to count. However, Jaime knew that it was up to him to learn the material, no matter what. He knew he had to persevere if he wanted to pass.
After that disastrous quiz in his first biology course, Jaime found out he wasn&#8217;t the only one having trouble. Some of his classmates were worried about their own scores, afraid they might not pass. They started studying together almost every day, and Jaime decided to join them, hoping that would help. He reviewed the material before their study sessions so that he wouldn&#8217;t look like he didn&#8217;t know anything. In the study group, everyone asked each other questions and explained in ways that made sense to them. By the second or third study session, Jaime felt comfortable explaining things to the others, which helped him reinforce what he was trying to learn.
They all did well on the next quiz, but they had to keep studying as often as they could to get ready for the midterm. They spent more than twice as much time going over things together as they did in class, but it was worth it. Jaime and his study partners passed the class thanks to their mutual support. He kept that success in mind in the next biology course, and every hard course after that. Even if it seemed impossible in the beginning, with a lot of effort, he could do it. He just had to persevere.
Perseverance
