Click the X-Words: Read the text below once to understand it. Then read it again and click on the x-words. Counting repeated x-words, you should find a total of 33.
Think about a time when you told someone some good news, talked about a positive experience, or described something that made you feel successful. It could be something simple, like watching a movie you really enjoyed, or finding out that you could leave work early. It could also be something more meaningful, like doing well on a quiz or spending a day doing what you love.
How did the other person react when you told them? Did they seem interested? Did they ask you questions to help you re-live the experience? If so, you probably felt better after the conversation. On the other hand, if the person didn&#8217;t support you, or changed the topic or even said negative things, you probably felt worse.
Research shows that we usually respond in 1 of 4 different styles, listed below. Imagine riding a unicycle over the Brooklyn Bridge, like the people in the photo. Later, you told a friend about your amazing day doing something difficult but really fun. Your friend could say anything in response. Whatever he or she says, it would probably show one of these response styles. Which one would make you feel the best?
An active, constructive response: Wow, that sounds like fun! Tell me more. Where did you go? What was your favorite part?
An active, destructive response: Oh, no, a unicycle? That sounds really dangerous! You don&#8217;t even have anywhere to put your hands on a unicycle!
A passive, constructive response: Hmm, that&#8216;s nice.
A passive, destructive response: Yeah, I had a good day too. I went to the park and played soccer with my friends. Afterwards we went out for some food; it was great!
You might wonder why the last response is considered destructive. It may seem positive, since the person talks about a good day and pleasant activities. However, those comments take the focus off the unicycle day completely. They ignore what the unicycle rider experienced, changing the topic. Even though that&#8216;s not obviously negative, like the person who talked about the dangers of riding a unicycle, it&#8216;s still not supportive.
Of these 4 response styles, there&#8216;s only one that can really help make relationships stronger: active, constructive response. We don&#8217;t always notice how we respond, but we can try. Sometimes we might not be in the mood to ask questions or really support someone else. We may not have time to talk much, or we could be distracted. Yet it&#8216;s worth making an effort to be aware of how we respond, and to try to respond in an active, constructive way. What we say can make a difference in how others feel. That in turn can affect our relationships with them.
We all have choices to make. Why would anyone choose more frustration and stress when we could choose something more positive instead?
