	When you think of classic American road food  like hamburgers, french fries, and milkshakes, do you see any connection to democracy? How about urban renewal? If you  have ever heard the history of the Shake Shack, maybe you do. It’s  a restaurant with  and more.  Shake Shack has grown in popularity so much that it has expanded both in New York City, where it started, in other cities in the U.S., and even abroad. 
The first Shake Shack, pictured here, was built in Madison Square Park, near the famous Flatiron building. Like other public parks in the city, Madison Square Park has changed a lot over the years. It has gone through a period of ups and downs, but businesses like Shake Shack  have  had a positive influence. They represent the public-private partnerships that have increased in New York City’s parks over the last decade or so. Although you could  certainly find reasons to criticize these partnerships, you could  also thank them for making the parks cleaner and safer. Shake Shack is  a good example of a private business that might seem like it’s for rich people but it has some lower-priced products, too. As a matter of fact, it actually started with a connection to democracy. 
The origins of Shake Shack are linked to a partnership between its founder, Danny Meyer, and a Thai artist, Navin Rawanchaikul. The artist’s show “I Love Taxi” was a political statement about democracy as well as a fun work of art. It involved taxi cabs painted with faces and other designs and a fully functioning hot dog cart.  You might wonder how this is  connected to democracy. As Danny Meyer  explained in an interview, “The 2 most democratic things in the world are hot dog carts and taxi cabs, because everyone in the world has either been able to afford to take a taxi ride or had to be the guy driving the taxi. And everyone in the world has either been able to buy a hot dog or had to be the guy selling it.” 
Whether you agree with that or not, if you appreciate a successful business you might  want to learn a little more about Shake Shack. There are people who look down on it, wondering why anyone would  pay so much money for a simple hamburger. Others say that you can’t always get such a delicious burger in such a lovely setting, and you get what you pay for in terms of the quality of the ingredients. If you don’t want hormones or antibiotics in your meat, Shake Shack is  a good place to go. The menu can  change depending on the location and the season, but you’re almost guaranteed to find burgers and milkshakes no matter where or when you go. 
