Tigers are often called big cats, for obvious reasons. With the shape of their bodies and the way they move, they look very similar to the types of cats humans have lived with for thousands of years. We know that tigers and pet cats are all carnivores; they can eat all kinds of living creatures. Unlike tigers in the wild, pet cats don’t need to catch their own food to survive. They can live happily on the dried or canned food that we humans feed them.
We usually think of tigers as the real killers, since they have to kill if they don’t want to starve to death. However, a recent study of house cats who go outside showed that pet cats haven’t lost their killer instincts at all. Scientists estimate that as many as 12.3 billion mammals are killed by cats in the U.S. every year. This includes more than the mice and rats that are often seen as prey for cats. Other mammals, like squirrels and rabbits, are also caught and killed by cats who get a chance to go outdoors. The number of birds killed by cats is estimated at 2.4 billion, which doesn’t seem like good news at all. According to the study, it doesn’t matter if the cats are fed by humans or not. Their instinct tells them to hunt; if they get the opportunity, they’ll follow that instinct.
Reading about this study reminded me of something I saw in my neighborhood a few years ago. I was kind of shocked at the time, but now it makes sense. One day, as I was walking near a house with an overgrown garden, I saw something moving in the tall grass. At first I thought it was just a cat, but then I realized that the cat wasn’t alone. It had another animal in its mouth. I didn’t really want to see a rat, but I looked anyway. I was surprised when I realized that it was a squirrel. Until then, I didn’t know that cats ate squirrels; I thought they limited themselves to birds, mice and rats. Of course that doesn’t make sense; omnivores eat what they can find.
The important point about cats is that their hunting instinct doesn’t disappear when we keep them inside as protected pets. Although we might think it’s good for them to get outside and have some fun acting like wild little tigers, the study found that cats also get into dangerous situations outdoors, risking their health with our chemical wastes, traffic, etc. If you have a cat and you don’t want it to get sick, you should probably keep it inside and feed it yourself. Whether you want to think about insects in your home or not, your cat will probably find a spider or something else to satisfy its hunting instincts.
