The sun was shining, but the temperature was only about 20 degrees Fahrenheit, minus 7 Celsius. The combination of such cold air and strong winds led to a wind chill advisory from the U.S. National Weather Service. They warned of the danger of frostbite and hypothermia, giving this advice: "Outdoor exposure should be limited. If you are heading outdoors, dress in layers and keep your hands and head covered to protect against frostbite."
Erik Hoversten was following this advice for the most part, but not 100 per cent. He was working at the Sunnyside Greenmarket in Queens, accepting food scraps as part of the NYC Compost Project, and he had already spent about 4 hours outside when I saw him. People from the neighborhood were  used to going to the market to buy vegetables and drop off their vegetable and fruit scraps, coffee grounds, eggshells, paper bags and other materials to be composted. If no one from the NYC Compost Project had been there to accept those things, they would probably just go to the trash. That wouldn't be the most efficient option for the city or the the compost project.
Erik had a sign saying, "I braved the cold for NYC Compost Project." It also mentioned the idea of giving back, which is central to the project. People who understand the value of compost for healthy soil and plants make the effort to drop off their compostable materials. It doesn't take a lot of effort, but it's a little more work than just throwing everything in the trash. Instead of just rotting in the trash under layers of plastic and all kinds of stuff, those materials break down over time. The compost pile actually gets hot as the bacteria help decompose organic matter. Over time, it all turns into what some call "black gold." That's when the NYC Compost Project gives back to the community, offering people a valuable source of fertilizer.
On this Saturday in February, a day after Abraham Lincoln's birthday and a day before Valentine's Day, I almost didn't go to the compost drop off. The wind was painful as it hit my skin, but I was dressed in layers and I covered up with a scarf. Getting compost back was a wonderful reward.
To learn more, please visit the NYC Compost Project online and contribute food scraps if possible!
