Note:This text is adapted from an essay by DM, who read The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind. The photo was very kindly provided by Ben Nabors, the director and producer of the documentary film William and the Windmill.
Becoming a hero doesn’t mean only being a person who does something special in a war. What is important for a hero is sacrificing part of one’s own life to help provide a better and easier life for other people. William Kamkwamba, a citizen of Malawi is a great example of someone who believed in himself and struggled to defeat adversity.
As a 14-year-old boy, William had to leave school because his parents didn’t have enough money to pay for it. After that, Kamkwamba decided to teach himself by going to his village’s library, which had textbooks from Malawi, the United States, Zambia and Zimbabwe. He found the same books that students were reading in his former school, so he borrowed them and asked his friends to give him updates on what they had done in class each day. A few science books caught his attention, especially when he saw pictures that showed how things work. Reading in English was hard, but he really liked science, and he soon began learning more and more about energy and how windmills could produce it.
By studying something that he had never learned before, William developed confidence in himself and realized that he could actually build a windmill. He started going to the junkyard next to his high school to find all the parts he needed, like an old wheel from a bicycle, a couple pieces of wood, plates of metal and more. He kept going, even when people made fun of him. His was experimental, but it let him power an electric light bulb that he put way up at the top of the windmill. People in the village noticed the light from a distance and started changing their opinion about him; he seemed quite intelligent and skillful, not crazy after all. Thanks to his windmill, William’s family was able to use simple electrical things like a light bulb so they could read and study at night.
After a Malawian newspaper wrote about William and his windmill and some bloggers from America and Nigeria shared his story, more and more people learned what he had done. Soon people began helping him and they found ways for him to study in school again. He was chosen to speak at a TED talk in Arusha, Tanzania that was part of TEDGlobal 2007. It changed his life through the connections it helped him make and the donations he could use for his family and his village. Later he created a second windmill and set up more light bulbs and some solar systems. His work let his family pump water from the ground, to drink and irrigate their fields. The whole village came to his house to get water.
William’s hard work studying science books and building his first windmill was a key to his success in life. Maybe the windmill which he created from garbage wasn’t so professional, but it made all the villagers’ lives easier. He found a lot of support to help him study more and more, first in special programs in Africa and eventually at Dartmouth, a prestigious college in the United States.
William Kamkwamba became a hero in his village, showing that if we have goals in life we have to do everything to reach them. He opened a new way for the next generation in his village. Everyone who knows him there will tell their children about the boy who decided to change his life for the better, and through hard work he actually did.
